RIMS



Create the storage path of the database

If it’s connecting to the local server, the database is in the “database” folder under the RIMS
installation directory.
If it’s connecting to the remote server, the database is in the Microsoft SQL
Server\MSSQL.1\MSSQL\Data folder under the SQL server installation directory.

4.4-29
After creating the new databse, you could select the database you just created in the pull-down
menu. Click “ok” to configure the new databse. As the following:

4.4-30

4.4-31
After confugring the new database, the RIMS software will restart to affect the database to the
RIMS software.
Attentions: the SQL version supports the version above SQL2005 only.

- 105 -

Chapter Four Instruction of the Software Performance

RIMS

4.4.3.5 Image Management (Optional)

4.4-32
Image Management: it allows removing the attendance image in the spanning time
optionally. And it also allows removing the attendance image corresponding to the
enroll id.

- 106 -

Chapter Four Instruction of the Software Performance

RIMS

Chapter Five Operation of the SQL version
1. Installation and configuration of SQL database.
Open the SQL2005express under the SQLexpress directory in the CD. (it allows
downloading other version but above 2005.)
You could use the SQL Server database after the installation. Please refer to the
database source administrator for the details of the SQL Server connection.

- 107 -

Chapter Five Operation of the SQL version

RIMS

Chapter Six QA
1. It cannot connect the device to the computer, what can I do?
A. Check if the serial port cable is damage or not. If it’s damage,
please change another serial port cable.
B. Check whether the COM port of the computer has normal
communication or not. If the communication is abnormal, please
change to another PC communication way.
C. Check the Device ID and Port no. of the RIMS software are the
same with the ones in the device.
D. If the communication way is USB communication, please check if
the USB driver has been installed.
E. If it’s the connection exception:

There’s a conflict between the RIMS software and one another
software. Close the RIMS software first, then click and run the
Check.exe under the RIMS installation directory, and rerun the RIMS
again.
F. If it’s none of the problems above, please check the communication
chip of the device. If there’s any exception, please change another
communication chip.
2. When running the RIMS, it prompts the dialog box “The
application cannot start”.
It’s because you haven’t installed the .NET Framework completely,
which leads to the initialization failure.
3. How to set the working shift and affect it to the staff in the
RIMS software?
let’s suppose Company A has three working shift, and people take one of them
every day. RIMS set the shift to the staff automatically according to their attendance
record.
- 108 -

Chapter Six QA

RIMS

Step1: go to the

window, click to add three working shift, as the

following:
Morning time: 01:00-09:00 Afternoon time: 09:00 – 16:00 Evening time: 16:00 – 23:59

Step 2: turn to the

window, click to add three working shift, as the following:

Step 3: turn to

window, click to add a working group:

- 109 -

Chapter Six QA

RIMS

Step 4:

User Management window, click to add the new user info. Suppose

there is user info in the software already. Then click

to the popup window.

Right click to choose the persons on the left column, then click “Default Att” to select
“S-Group” and working group, then click “Apply” to affect the setting.

4. What is the data downloaded by the USB flash driver?
A. GLG_001.TXT: is the new attendance record.
B. AGL_001.TXT: is all the attendance record.
C. SLG_001.TXT: is the super administrator operation record.
D. AFP_001.TXT and AFP_001.DAT: are the files when you download
all the enroll info.
5. How to reset the administrator password of the RIMS software.
Enter the “Maintenance” window, click
, then input the
“original password”, “New password” and “Re-enter password”.
If there’s no any password before, then leave the “original password”
as blank.
6. How to empty all the data on the RIMS software?
Enter the “Maintenance” window, click
, then click
, click “OK” in the prompt window.
Attention: all the data (including the attendance record and the
user info) in the RIMS will be empty.
7. Why can’t I install the Framework?

- 110 -

Chapter Six QA

RIMS
You’re not the system administrator of the windows;
②The installation has been estimated threatening and been stopped（you should
close the anti-virus software first, restart the computer when the installation is
finished）.

8. Why the Device fails to connect with PC?
①Check if the data cable of the machine is correct;
②Check if the power line is working and start up the machine;
③Check if the communication mode and parameter are correct;
④If using the USB communication, check out whether the USB driver is set up or not;
⑤If none of the above reasons, please open and run the Check.exe under the Rims
installation directory.

9. How to install the driver for the USB communication device?
(The installation is no need for serial interface, TCP/IP devices)
The prompt box will display Successful Connect after the connection, insert CD and
click Next step.

10. The time of the machine is not correct, what should I do?
Device Management  Normal  Synchronous Time Device (Synchronize device
time and the current computer time.)

11. How to display the username on the screen of the machine?
(Follow this method to copy fingerprint data when there’re 2 or
more machines.)
Get the Device connected; User Management  choose the Device ID (Device);
right-click the chosen user  Get all Enroll  Upload Enroll  Upload Username.

12. Why there’s no data in the report?
①Check if the data has been acquired;
②Check if the personnel information is written;
③Check whether the Enroll ID is in accordance with the number of the attendance
machine or not;
④Check if the personnel’s date of entry is correct;
- 111 -

Chapter Six QA

RIMS
⑤Check whether the default shift is correct or not;
⑥Check if the machine time, report query time is correct;
⑦Check if the data statistics has been done.

13. There are too many columns in the report, what should I do to
delete some of them?
Right-click the column of the report  display/hidden columns  select the
wanted/unwanted ones  save.

14. What can I set in the Attendance Rule Setting?
Attendance management  Attendance Rule: Late/Early/Absence rules, Duty time,
Shift, Weekend, Holiday, Overtime Rules.

15. What can I do with the data after reinstalling operating
system?
System Maintenance  Restore DB; re-input the personnel name, enroll ID (which
will display in the screen of the machine when punching the card) and other
information, acquire all the data again, then process the data.

16. The device cannot be entered when the administrator is
changed, what should I do?
Device management  Normal  Cancel Administrative Authority; Re-enroll the
administrator.

17. Is there any electronic document for help?
Right-click the blank area of the software  Help  Online User Manual

18. What operations should
administrator’s resigning?

be

handed

over

when

the

Fingerprint enroll, backup enroll, administrator enroll, cancel administrative
enrollment.

- 112 -

Chapter Six QA

